README.md, before:

📰 News Analyzer Dashboard

Tech Stack: Python 🐍, Streamlit 🌐, NewsAPI 🗞️, NLTK 🧠, TextBlob ✨, Pandas 📊, Plotly 📈

🚀 Project Overview

The News Analyzer Dashboard is an interactive web app that fetches real-time news and performs sentiment analysis to provide actionable insights. Users can explore trending news topics, analyze sentiment, and visualize data interactively. This project highlights Natural Language Processing (NLP) and data visualization skills.

🌟 Features

Real-time News Fetching 🗞️ – Collects the latest news articles using NewsAPI.

Sentiment Analysis 😊😐😡 – Classifies news as positive, neutral, or negative using NLTK and TextBlob.

Data Processing & Insights 📊 – Cleans and structures news data for meaningful analysis.

Interactive Dashboard 🌐 – Built with Streamlit and Plotly for dynamic, interactive visualization.

🛠️ Tech Stack

Python – Core programming and data handling 🐍

Streamlit – Interactive web app framework 🌐

NewsAPI – Fetch real-time news 🗞️

NLTK & TextBlob – NLP and sentiment analysis 🧠✨

Pandas – Data processing 📊

Plotly – Data visualization 📈

🖥️ Installation & Usage

Clone the repository:

git clone <your-repo-link>

Install dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Run the Streamlit app:

streamlit run app.py

Explore real-time news trends and sentiment analysis in the interactive dashboard 🌟


💡 Skills Highlighted

Python programming 🐍

Data collection & preprocessing 📊

Natural Language Processing (NLP) with NLTK & TextBlob 🧠

Data visualization with Plotly 📈

Interactive dashboards with Streamlit 🌐

Working with APIs (NewsAPI) 🗞️

Commit message:

Revise README for clarity and additional details
Updated project overview and features section for clarity. Added installation instructions and a preview of the dashboard.

README.md, after:

📰 News Analyzer Dashboard

Tech Stack: Python 🐍, Streamlit 🌐, NewsAPI 🗞️, NLTK 🧠, TextBlob ✨, Pandas 📊, Plotly 📈

🚀 Project Overview

The News Analyzer Dashboard is an interactive web app that fetches real-time news and performs sentiment analysis to provide actionable insights. Users can explore trending news topics, analyze sentiment, and visualize data interactively.

This project highlights Natural Language Processing (NLP), data visualization, and working with APIs.

🌟 Features

Real-time News Fetching 🗞️ – Collects the latest news articles using NewsAPI.

Sentiment Analysis 😊😐😡 – Classifies news as positive, neutral, or negative using NLTK and TextBlob.

Data Processing & Insights 📊 – Cleans and structures news data for meaningful analysis.

Interactive Dashboard 🌐 – Built with Streamlit and Plotly for dynamic, interactive visualization.

🖥️ Dashboard Preview
Home Page


Interactive dashboard showing the latest real-time news fetched via NewsAPI.

Sentiment Analysis


Visualizes sentiment trends: positive, neutral, and negative news over time.



Tip: Replace PASTE_YOUR_RAW_URL_HERE with the raw image URL from your GitHub assets folder. Don’t forget ?raw=true at the end.

🛠️ Tech Stack

Python – Core programming and data handling 🐍

Streamlit – Interactive web app framework 🌐

NewsAPI – Fetch real-time news 🗞️

NLTK & TextBlob – NLP and sentiment analysis 🧠✨

Pandas – Data processing 📊

Plotly – Data visualization 📈

🖥️ Installation & Usage

Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/suheeda/news-analyzer.git

Install dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Run the Streamlit app:

streamlit run app.py

Explore real-time news trends and sentiment analysis in the interactive dashboard 🌟

💡 Skills Highlighted

Python programming 🐍

Data collection & preprocessing 📊

Natural Language Processing (NLP) with NLTK & TextBlob 🧠

Data visualization with Plotly 📈

Interactive dashboards with Streamlit 🌐

Working with APIs (NewsAPI) 🗞️
